---
layout: post
title: Who is the real (NBA) MVP?
---

In today's NBA, front offices need to be mindful about more than just individual talent and team chemistry. The NBA's revenue has skyrocketed in the past few years, and player salaries have risen accordingly. The average salary of NBA players in the 2016-2017 season was $4.7 million, and the median salary was $2.1 million. The distribution shows a heavy right skew, suggesting that the median may be a better indicator of the true representative "average" salary. To put this into context, Michael Jordan made just $7.3 million (adjusting for inflation) the year he led the Bulls to a 72-10 regular season record, the second-best record EVER in NBA history.

-Insert histogram here-
-Insert bar plot of median 2016-2017 salary vs. past stars' salaries accounting for inflation-

This rise in average salary can be partly attributed to the fatter paychecks star players are getting, as well as the new structure of max contracts. See below the average salaries of the 10 highest-paid players per season since the 1999-2000 season. That's a whopping X.XX% increase. Must be nice.

As max contracts and salaries get larger and larger, front offices are starting to face a predicament under the league-mandated salary cap. How can we strategically award these contracts to our best players (that deserve it), while also leaving enough room and flexibility within the cap to have the depth needed to contend for a title? In other words, how can we structure our contracts so that we extract the most value per dollar from these players?
